Service workers and cache storage.
So does anyone know what
a service worker is here?
>> A background JavaScript cache,
I think, that can run.
>> It's a background JavaScript cache.
Let's say,
it depends on what you mean by background.
It's not a cache, but
the service worker can use a cache.
So it's a use case more than
what's a service worker.
So we have a service worker and
then we have the cache storage.
What you said is the service
worker using the cache storage,
not exactly what the service worker is.
So a service worker is a JavaScript file.
I think I have the original definition
here, but the service worker,
it's a middleware written
in JavaScript between your
progressive web app or website and
the servers and the cloud.
It can be more things, it's actually
a different thread, it's a worker,
that's why it has its own life cycle.
There is a lot to talk
about service workers, and
I recommend you two workshops or
courses in Frontend Masters.
One from Kyle Simpson on service workers,
specifically.
And the other one, the same I mentioned
before on JavaScript in the background,
we also cover the service workers there.
But actually, it's something that you
can install in users' devices for
your website.
And next time the user is
visiting your website,
the service worker can
actually act like the server.
In fact, let me make you a quick and
dirty definition of a service worker
that is not 100% accurate, but
you will get it pretty quickly in case
you haven't heard about it before.
A service worker is a web server written
in JavaScript that we
install in user's device.
So we are creating a web server and
we are installing that web server
locally in the user's device,
in the phone or in the computer.
So next time the user is accessing our
website, instead of going to the real
server, that is, in the cloud, that has
the latency because the latency is here.
When we are going to the cloud,
to the network, that's the latency.
If we stay here, we are within
the boundaries of the device.
We are not going to the network,
we don't have the latency.
So the service worker is
written in JavaScript and
can serve files to the browser.
>> So you can also simplify down just
being a caching middleware as well?
>> Yeah, you can, in this case, using
that API, you have control of the cache.
Instead of relying on the browser's cache,
now you can have your own cache and
serve your own files locally, okay?
So here, you have one use case,
one design pattern for
using service workers and cache storage.
So you have a PWA or a website,
remember a PWA is just a website,
that makes a request to the server, but
there is a service worker installed.
So the service worker will say, okay,
let me search first in the cache.
The cache is a local storage
available in the browser.
If it's a cache hit, we respond to
the browser with that response,
if not, we go to a network.
So if you think about this,
this is similar to what I wrote
over the browser's cache.
It's kind of the similar algorithm, the
difference is that this is written by us.
We have control of this algorithm,
we write this in JavaScript.
And a service worker will not
help the first initial visit
of your user, but
it might help the next visits.
Because the next time the user
is getting into our websites,
we can serve the files locally.
It's like a local host on users' devices.
Do you have any question on that?
It's kind of a new paradigm on
the web that has been for a while now.
Compatible with all the browsers,
we are probably three or
four years with all the browsers
supporting service workers.
But we are still far away from
a lot of websites using it.
It's still some kind of a scary part
of web development getting into
service workers.
And it can help a lot performance
because it can improve web vitals
a lot if we don't need to go
to the network every time.
Of course, there will be a lot of
use cases where we still need to
go to the real server on the network.
>> So it's not sending just a more
compressed version to the same network,
it's just not even touching it at all?
>> It's not even touching the network,
and that's why using service worker,
it's an API that will let you make
an offline web, an offline capable web.
Because then even if you
don't have connection,
you can still serve the files locally.
Okay, so it's a huge deal, that's why
you have here in Frontend Masters a full
course just on service workers.
And there are also courses
that are taking that topic.
>> Why do you think the adoption of
service workers has been so slow?
>> I think the adoption of
service worker is slow, first,
because it's a new paradigm and
it changes the whole scope.
It's also not simple to implement,
actually.
So it's a low level API,
so you actually need to
understand what you're doing,
or use library.
In fact, Workbox is, for
example, one of the libraries.
I still find myself getting a lot of
developers that don't understand,
maybe some of you that
you didn't know what.
I mean, you know that they were there, but
I don't know exactly what that is,
okay, haven't used it.
So because it's so
different from what we were used to
use in the web space,
it's a completely new paradigm.
I feel it's one of the reasons
of why it's still slow.
Also debugging with service workers,
it's really painful,
because now you are not hitting
directly the server all the time.
So sometimes you don't know
which version you're rendering,
is the one that is locally,
I mean, you can control that.
But it feels like it's not so
simple as with just files
on my server that users are getting,
and that's all.
It's like you are creating copies of
your server on millions of users and
you feel you're losing control
of what's going on there.
So it's hard work, yeah,
that's probably one reason.